Sometimes, we feel lonely, even though there are lots of people around.
We spoke to some young people about being lonely to find out what we can do about it.
Rosie left the primary school near her home to live at a high school two hours away by bus.
It was the first time she had stayed away from her family.
She did not know anyone at her new school and she was very lonely.
We asked her about it and she told us why she felt so lonely.
I was the only person from my village at my new school and I didn't know anyone at all.
She explained to us what she did about it.
I decided to join some students' clubs and take part in as many activities as I could.
I introduced myself to the other students and tried not to worry.
Slowly, I made friends and now I'm so busy that I'm almost never lonely.
Next, we spoke to John.
Last year, his family moved to a new city and he started at a new school.
He told us what he did to become part of the new school by being patient when he started
to worry or feel sad.
It takes time to make new friends, he said.
At first, it's a bit difficult to trust new people, but after a while it gets easier.
As these young people found out, there are things you can do to help yourself when you
feel lonely.
You can change your way of thinking and you can also change what you do to help yourself.